School of Information Studies	IST 565	Data Mining	3 credit(s) Upon sufficient interest	"Introduction to data mining techniques, familiarity with particular real-world applications, challenges involved in these applications, and future directions of the field. Optional hands-on experience with commercially available software packages."	IST 687
School of Information Studies	IST 659	Data Administration Concepts and Database Management	3 credit(s) Every semester	"Definition, development, and management of databases for information systems. Data analysis techniques, data modeling, and schema design. Query languages and search specifications. Overview of file organization for databases. Data administration concepts and skills. Credit cannot be given for both IST 659 and IST 658."	
School of Information Studies	IST 687	Introduction to Data Science	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Introduces fundamentals about data and the standards, technologies, and methods for organizing, managing, curating, preserving, and using data. Discusses broader issues relating to data management and use as well as quality control and publication of data."	
School of Information Studies	IST 718	Advanced Information Analytics	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"A broad introduction to analytical processing tools and techniques for information professionals. Students will develop a portfolio of resources, demonstrations, recipes, and examples of various analytical techniques."	
Martin J. Whitman School of Management	SCM 651	Business Analytics	3 credit(s) Every semester	"Business analytics including advanced spreadsheets; relational database and SQL queries; statistical analysis in R including multi-linear regression, interactions, tests for regression assumptions, logit, probit; neural networks; and dashboards."	
Martin J. Whitman School of Management	ACC 652	Accounting Analytics	3 credit(s) Every semester	"Accounting analytics including Benford?s Law, current and prior period data, anomaly detection, correlation and time series detection, risk assessment and risk scoring, and purchasing card transaction fraud."	
Martin J. Whitman School of Management	MAR 653	Marketing Analytics	3 credit(s) Every semester	"Marketing analytics techniques including discriminant analysis, logit, cluster analysis, factor analysis, and conjoint analysis. Marketing decision support models such as new product diffusion, test-market, price and sales promotion decision models."	
Martin J. Whitman School of Management	FIN 654	Financial Analytics	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"An introduction to methods and tools useful in decision-making in the financial industry, including: macroeconomic event studies, analysis of term structures, Morningstar equity data, style analysis, credit card receivables, trading analytics, execution algorithms, etc."	
Martin J. Whitman School of Management	SCM 702	Principles of Management Science	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	Concepts and development of analytical model building as used in global supply chain decision.	MBC 617?OR?MBC 635?AND?MBC 638
Martin J. Whitman School of Management	MAS 766	Linear Statistical Models I: Regression Models	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"General regression model, estimation methods, general linear hypothesis tests, residual analysis, indicator variables, multicollinearity, autoregressive model, weighted least squares, variable-screening procedures."	
Martin J. Whitman School of Management	MAS 777	Time Series Modeling and Analysis	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Fundamental concepts and procedures for forecasting discrete time series for planning and control. Regression analysis, ARIMA methods, econometric modeling, transfer functions, intervention analysis, Kalman filters, univariate and multivariate methods."	MBC 638
School of Information Studies	IST 618	Information Policy	3 credit(s) Every semester	"Public policy issues that affect the information, library, and telecommunication sectors. These include privacy and security, intellectual property, freedom of expression, communications access, and public sector information. Application of economic, legal, and political science concepts to policy analysis."	
School of Information Studies	IST 623	Introduction to Information Security	3 credit(s) Every semester	Basic concepts and technologies of information security. Students who successfully complete this course will have a comprehensive overview of information security with some hands-on experience.	
School of Information Studies	IST 652	Scripting for Data Analysis	3 credit(s) Every semester	"Scripting for the data analysis pipeline. Acquiring, accessing and transforming data In the forms of structured, semi- structured and unstructured data. Additional work for graduate students."	
School of Information Studies	IST 664	Natural Language Processing	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Linguistic and computational aspect of natural language processing technologies. Lectures, readings, and projects in the computational techniques required to perform all levels of linguistic processing of text. Additional work required of graduate students."	
School of Information Studies	IST 719	Information Visualization	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"A broad introduction to data visualization for information professionals. Students will develop a portfolio of resources, demonstrations, recipes, and examples of various data visualization techniques."	
School of Information Studies	IST 722	Data Warehouse	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	Introduction to concepts of business intelligence (BI) and the practice/techniques in building a BI solution. Focuses are on how to use data warehouses as a BI solution to make better organizational decisions.	IST 659
School of Information Studies	IST 736	Text Mining	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Introduces concepts and methods for knowledge discovery from large amount of text data, and the application of text mining techniques for business intelligence, digital humanities, and social behavior analysis."	
School of Information Studies	IST 769	Advanced Database Administration Concepts and Database Management	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"In-depth analysis of databases and database management system architecture, building complex database objects, database applications using forms and reports, data warehouses, establishing and implementing database security, and tuning databases for optimum performance."	IST 659
