College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 321	Introduction to Probability and Statistics	4 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Programming-oriented introduction to fundamentals in statistics and probability; elementary statistics, graphical and numerical representation; probability distributions; tests and confidence intervals; regression, and correlation. CPS 621 adds Journalism applications of statistical methods."	MAT 295
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 252?	Introduction to Computer Science	4 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Programming emphasizing recursion, data structures, and data abstraction. Elementary analysis of and reasoning about programs. Public policy issues. Extensive programming. Three hours of lecture and one hour of computer laboratory."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 341	Computer Organization & Programming Systems?	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Essentials of computer organization: digital logic, microprogramming, processors, memories, input-output devices. Instruction sets, assembly language, data types, relation to high level languages. Program construction, traps and interrupts, input-output programming."	ECS 102?OR?CIS 252
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 342	Introduction to Systems Programming	1 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Input and output, including error handling, file descriptors and interface to OS. Pointers and pointer arithmetic. Structures. Memory functions and storage allocation. Makefiles, header files, libraries, compilation, and linking."	CIS 351 AND CIS 341
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 351?	Data Structures	4 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Abstract data structures, algorithm analysis, array, string lists, trees, binary search trees, priority queues, hashing, graphs, object-oriented programming. Three hours of lectures. One hour of computer laboratory."	CIS 252
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 352	Programming Language: Theory & Practice	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Environments, stores, scoping, functional and imperative languages, modules, classes, data encapsulation, types, and polymorphism. Implementation of these constructs in a definitional interpreter."	CIS 375?AND?CIS 351?
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 375	Introduction to Discrete Mathematics	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Basic set theory and symbolic logic. Methods of proof, including mathematical induction. Relations, partitions, partial orders, functions, and graphs. Credit cannot be given for both MAT 375 and CIS 375."	PHI 251?
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 453	Software Specification and Design	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Software requirements analysis, including structured analysis methodology. Behavioral and nonbehavioral aspects of software specification. Development of specification. Development of specification documents. High-level design and software architecture."	CIS 351?OR?CSE 382
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 454	Software Implementation	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Ethics in software development. Detailed design of software, using tools such as structure charts. Implementation and software testing. Team projects and presentations."	CIS 453
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 473	Automata and Computability	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Countable and uncountable sets; diagonalization proofs; finite state automata; regular, context-free, context-sensitive, recursive, and r. e. languages; Turing machines; relationships between classes of languages and machines; the halting problem; proof methods for decidability and undecidabilty."	CIS 375?OR?MAT 375
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 477	Introduction to Analysis of Algorithms	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Mathematical modeling of computational problems; searching and sorting algorithms; search trees, heaps, and hash tables; divide-and-conquer, dynamic programming, and greedy choice design techniques; graph algorithms; NP-completeness; and selected topics."	CIS 375?AND?CIS 351?
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 486	Design of Operating Systems	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Design and implementation of modern operating systems. Resource management and protection of CPU, memory, and storage. File systems. Input/output. Concurrent process implementation. Process synchronization. Networking."	(CIS 341?AND?CIS 342?AND?CIS 351) OR (CSE 381?AND?CSE 382)
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 500	Selected Topics	1-6 credit(s)	Exploration of a topic (to be determined) not covered by the standard curriculum but of interest to faculty and students in a particular semester.	Repeatable
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 531	Compiler Construction	3 credit(s) Upon sufficient interest	"Programming a small compiler. Lexical analysis, tokens, finite automata, hashing. Syntax analysis, grammars, syntax trees, error recovery. Scope and type analysis, symbol tables. Run-time stack, variable addressing, expression evaluation, procedure activation, recursion. Code generation, 0ptimization, portability."	CIS 351
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 543	Control of Robots	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Kinematics, dynamics, and control of mobile and/or manipulator robots. Path planning, actuators, sensors, human/machine interface. Two hours lecture and two hours laboratory weekly. Design project."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 545	Introduction to Combinatorics	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Permutations, combinations, recurrence relations, generating functions, inclusion-exclusion and applications, introductory graph theory."	CIS 275 OR MAT 375
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 553	Software Systems Implementation	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Organization, analysis, and documentation of a sophisticated implementation project in a prominent high-level language, such as ADA, C, or Modular-2. Substantial programming assignments and analytical documentation. Language and project may vary from year to year."	CIS 453
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 554	Object Oriented Programming in C++	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Survey of basic C constructs. Data abstraction, classes, derived classes, types, structures and template. Access control, information hiding, multiple inheritance. Formatting stream I/O, libraries, interfaces, modular system 0rganization. Substantial programming assignments."	ECS 102
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 563	Introduction to Data Science	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	Fundamentals of the knowledge discovery and data mining process. Basics of supervised and unsupervised learning. Applications (recommendation and collaborative filtering) and computational tools for carrying out predictive/descriptive modeling. Additional work required for graduate students.	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 565	Introduction to Artificial Neural Networks	3 credit(s) Upon sufficient interest	"Perceptrons and the Perceptron Convergence Theorem; non-linear optimization, gradient descent methods; neural net architecture, conjugate-gradient and recurrent networks; Hopfield networks, Kohonen¡¯s feature maps; non-neural clustering algorithms."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 567	Knowledge Representation and Reasoning	3 credit(s) Irregularly	"Applications of mathematical methods to knowledge bases. Methods include nonclassical, fuzzy logic and statistical inference. Application topics include planning, temporal and physical reasoning, attitudes, the frame problem, preference, constraints, qualitative differential equations, situation theory."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 581	Concurrent Programming	3 credit(s) Irregularly	"Processes, events, alphabets, and trace sets. Process equivalence. Divergence, dead-lock, fairness, and termination. Message channels, buffers, pipelines, trees, rings, grids, recursive nets. Mutual exclusion, semaphores, conditional critical regions, monitors, remote procedures. Programming exercises in Joyce."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 583	Systems Assurance Seminar	3 credit(s) Irregularly	Basic terminology of assurance and cryptography. Social and privacy issues of assurance. Ethics in computing. Legal aspects and implications of system assurance. Weekly presentations by external and internal speakers.	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 607	Mathematical Basis for Computing	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Mathematical logic including predicate calculus, induction, theories with equality relations and groups. Mathematical logic applied to structures like nonnegative integers, tuples, lists, and trees."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 612	Cloud Computing	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Virtualized data centers, including virtual machine management, power management, and networking; cloud computing applications; and mobile cloud computing."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 623	Structured Programming and Formal Methods	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Reasoning about programs: specification, design, and realization of provably correct programs. Program and data structures, binding, procedures, recursion."	CIS 607/CSE 607
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 625	Computer Graphics	3 credit(s) Irregularly	Graphics programming. User interfaces. Modeling and viewing transformations. Shading techniques. Representations of three-dimensional models. Curves and non-planar surfaces. Ray tracing and radiosity. Antialiasing. Programming project required.	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 626	Theoretical Foundations of Computer Science	3 credit(s) Irregularly	"Computability and decidability, first-order logic, lambda calculus systems, program verification, semantics of programming languages, theory of language."	CIS 607
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 628	Introduction to Cryptography	3 credit(s)	"Classical and public-key cryptography. Topics include classical cryptosystems and their cryptanalysis, RSA and other public key cryptosystems, pseudo-random sequences, zero-knowledge protocols, related ethical and social concerns."	(CIS 477 OR?CIS 675) OR (MAT 534?OR?MAT 541)
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 631	Compiler Design	3 credit(s) Irregularly	"Development of the logical design of a compiler: lexical analyzer, parser, symbol table, error routines, code generator, and code optimizer. Analysis of formal algorithms for each component, description of overall compiler-construction techniques."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 632	Modeling Concurrent Systems	3 credit(s) Upon sufficient interest	"Formal methods for specifying, modeling, and analyzing concurrent systems, and mathematical basis for such methods. Automated and semi-automated tools to apply these methods to analyze emergent behavior of computing related applications."	CIS 607/CSE 607
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 634	Assurance Foundations	3 credit(s) Irregularly	"Foundational theory, concepts, and computer-assisted reasoning tools necessary for assurance. Topics include functional programming, theorem proving, and logic for reasoning about access control, security, and trust."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 640	Topics in Mobile Programming	3 credit(s) Upon sufficient interest 	A variety of subjects surveyed or a particular subject in depth. Additional coursework required of graduate students.	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 643	Computer Security	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	Operating system security. Unix security. Trusted Computing Base. Authentication. Access control. Security models. Capability. Sandboxing. Software vulnerabilities. Worms. Viruses. Secure engineering principles. Secure programming. Auditing. Forensics.	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 644	Internet Security	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Internet architecture. Security and attacks on TCP/IP, DNS, and BGP protocols. Internet protocol security. Firewall. Intrusion detection. Network traceback. Web security. Encryption. Public Key infrastructure. One-way harsh function. Digital signature. Security protocols."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 645	Graph Theory	3 credit(s) Irregularly	"Fundamentals of graph theory and special topics including networks, matching, connectivity, planarity, and automorphism groups."	MAT 531
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 646	"Enumeration, Designs, and Matroids"	3 credit(s) Irregularly	"Generating functions, Polya enumeration, set systems, design parameters, finite projective planes, matroids."	MAT 531
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 651	Mobile Application Programming	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Development of applications for different mobile devices. Creating effective user interfaces, efficient use of persisitent storage, network services, GPS, maps and sensors. Additional work required of graduate students."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 652	Building Assured Components	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Development of system components with provable functional properties. Students gain hands-on experience walking the virtuous cycle of executable specifications, formal verification, and translation of specifications into a mainstream language."	CIS 634
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 655	Computer Architecture	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Computer-architecture characteristics and their effect on the design and performance of programs. Price-performance tradeoffs, instruction set design, memory hierarchies, pipelining, storage systems, selected topics in parallel architectures. Architecture of specified computers."	CIS 341
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 656	Concepts in Concurrent Programming	3 credit(s) Irregularly	"Introduction to concurrent programming. Programming-language features for expressing concurrent execution (processes), process communication, and process synchronization; methods of proving properties of concurrent programs, techniques for implementing concurrent systems."	CIS 623
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 657	Principles of Operating Systems	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Design and implementation of operating systems. Process and memory management, resource scheduling, file system management, I/O and kernel services and structuring. Includes weekly lab using a Unix-like operating system."	CIS/CSE 486 OR EQUIVALENT
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 661	Logic Programming 1	3 credit(s) Irregularly	"Formal logic as a programming language. Use of theorem prover as interpreter for programming languages, particularly Horn clause systems. Representation of problem transformations of programs. Applications, including natural-language processing, database representation, and query and expert systems; extensions of Horn clause formalisms."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 665	Computer Vision	3 credit(s) Odd academic yr e.g. 2007-8	"Image formation, edge detection, filtering, stereo vision, surface orientation. Optical flow, boundary detection, region growing, texture, motion analysis, representation of two- and three-dimensional objects. Knowledge representation issues for computer vision."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 666	Expert Systems	3 credit(s) Upon sufficient interest	"Production rules, forward/backward chaining, Rete algorithm, structured objects, introduction to an expert system language/shell, probabilistic inference networks, fuzzy logic, knowledge acquisition, and explanation generation. Programming project or term paper required."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 667	Introduction to Artificial Intelligence	3 credit(s) Upon sufficient interest	"Knowledge representation, production systems, search algorithms, game playing, uncertainty handling, learning, automated reasoning, computer vision, and natural language processing. Programming project or term paper required for CIS 667, not for CIS 467."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 668	Natural Language Processing	3 credit(s) Upon sufficient interest	"Linguistic and computational aspect of natural language processing technologies. Lectures, readings, and projects in the computational techniques required to perform all levels of linguistic processing of text. Additional work required of graduate students."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 671	Introduction to the Theories of Computation and Complexity	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Graduate- level survey of regular languages, finite state machines, elementary theory of computation, classification of unsolvable problems, elementary computational complexity theory, NP-completeness, and related notions."	CIS 607
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 672	Mathematical Logic I	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"First order logics and interpretations. Godel-Henkin completeness theorem, Herbrand¡¯s Theorem, compactness theorem, and the Lowenheim-Skolem Theorem. Basic model theory with applications to the theory of fields. Categoricity in power."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 675	Design and Analysis of Algorithms	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Asymptotic analysis and recurrences; classical numeric algorithms; advanced data structures; graph algorithms; divide-and-conquer, greedy choice, dynamic programming, and other computational strategies; NP-completeness."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 678	Quantum Computing	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring		
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 681	Software Modeling and Analysis	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring		
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 685	Simulation & Modelling	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring		
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 686	Discrete Event Systems	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"A spectrum of discrete event models used to describe and analyze discrete event systems will be covered including automata, Petri nets, Markov chains, and introductions to queuing models and discrete event simulation."	ECS 525?OR?MAT 521?OR?ELE 606
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 687	Object Oriented Design	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Basic methods of object oriented software design and implementation. Object oriented software engineering methodologies: specification, hierarchical decomposition, reuse and extensibility. Implementation of projects in object oriented programming language and analysis of design case studies."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 688	Internet Programming	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"A laboratory projects course. Programming models on web clients and servers. Topics include: browser and server object models, tagged languages, emphasizing HTML and XML, ASP programming, and database connectivity."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 690	Independent Study	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	In-depth exploration of a problem or problems. Individual independent study upon a plan submitted by the student. Admission by consent of supervising instructor or instructors and the department.	Repeatable
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 712	Data Parallel Computing	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Languages and algorithms for massively parallel computation on SIMD architectures. Illustrations drawn from applications such as shortest path determination, connected components, N-body problems, graphics, differential equations, simulated annealing, calculation in finite fields. Substantial programming project."	CIS 623
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 731	Artificial Neural Netwks	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Perceptions, capabilities and limitations. Supervised and unsupervised neural learning. Error back propagation and related algorithms. Hopfield model, feature maps, associative memory, simulated annealing, Boltzmann machines, and genetic algorithms. Complexity, capabilities, applications of neural networks."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 752	Wireless Network Security	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Wireless communication technologies, wireless LAN, mobile IP, mobile ad-hoc networks, wireless sensor networks, secure routing, secure locationing, key management, trust management, group communication, energy efficiency."	CIS/CSE 758 OR CIS/CSE 785
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 767	Mathematical Theory of Computation	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"The classical theory of effective computability, primarily concerned with the existence of computer methods. Topics: Turing machines, computable functions, recursion, unsolvable problems, degrees of unsolvability, applications."	CIS 521
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 774	Principles of Distributed Access Control	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Specification, verification, and design of secure networks using formal logic. Includes historical access control models, role-based access control, and logics for reasoning about authentication, authorization, audit, delegation, and trust."	CIS 607?OR?CSE 607?
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 775	Distributed Objects	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	`	CIS 607/CSE 607?
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 776	Design Patterns	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	A seminar course based on the book ¡°Design Patterns.¡± Object oriented design methods emphasizing conceptual understanding rather than software development projects.	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 778	Advanced Windows Programming	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Seminar/projects course including: MFC library; windows architecture Graphics Device Interface; common, ActiveX, and Explorer controls; bitmaps; property sheets; toolbars; and status bars."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 784	Software Engineering Studio	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Applied software engineering and project management. Students are expected to analyze, plan, design, implement, test, and evaluate original software system to stand alone or be integrated into an existing environment. All work performed in teams."	CSE 682?OR?CSE 687
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 787	Analytical Data Mining	3 credit(s) At least 1x fall or spring	"Knowledge discovery process, data warehouses, OLAP, data mining inference based on statistics and machine learning, rule generation; emphasis on analytical aspects; applications."	"CIS 675,?ELE 606,?CSE 607"
