College of Engineering and Computer Science	CSE 561	Digital Machine Design	3 credit(s)	"Behavioral and structural design methods and examples using a hardware description language (VHDL). Control, arithmetic, bus systems, memory systems. Logic synthesis from hardware language descriptions."	CSE 261
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CSE 788	Computer-Aided Design for VLSI and Digital Systems	3 credit(s)	"Computer aids for automatic physical design of digital systems. Algorithms for partitioning, placement, wire routing, layout compaction, etc. Programming competence required."	CSE 664?
College of Engineering and Computer Science	ELE 643	Theory of Semiconductor Devices	3 credit(s)	Fundamental theory of semiconductor devices and their linear and nonlinear mathematical and circuit models. Frequency response and switching characteristics of discrete and integrated structures comprising both bipolar and field effect devices.	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CSE 671	Embedded System Design	3 credit(s)	"Methodologies for systematic design of embedded systems. System specification, architecture modeling, component partitioning, estimation metrics, hardware software co-design. Embedded computing platforms and programming. ASIC, CPU, and glue logic. Individual project required."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CSE 731	VLSI Timing Analysis	3 credit(s)	Delay modeling and timing analysis of interconnections and gates. Critical path analysis and delay budgeting. Buffer insertion and device sizing. Switch and circuit level simulations.	CSE 664?
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CSE 765	VLSI Testing and Verification	3 credit(s)	"Fault modeling and simulation, automatic test pattern generation, design for testability, boundary scan architectures, and built-in self-test. Functional simulation, coverage metrics, event- and assertion-based verification, and formal methods including model checking and logical equivalence checking."	"CSE 561,?CSE 664"
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 625	Computer Graphics	3 credit(s)	Graphics programming. User interfaces. Modeling and viewing transformations. Shading techniques. Representations of three-dimensional models. Curves and non-planar surfaces. Ray tracing and radiosity. Antialiasing. Programming project required.	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 657	Principles of Operating Systems	3 credit(s)	"Design and implementation of operating systems. Process and memory management, resource scheduling, file system management, I/O and kernel services and structuring. Includes weekly lab using a Unix-like operating system."	CIS/CSE 486 OR EQUIVALENT
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CSE 643	Computer Security	3 credit(s)	Operating system security. Unix security. Trusted Computing Base. Authentication. Access control. Security models. Capability. Sandboxing. Software vulnerabilities. Worms. Viruses. Secure engineering principles. Secure programming. Auditing. Forensics.	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CSE 682	Software Engineering	3 credit(s)	"Requirements and specifications including tools such as PSL/PSA, SREM, design techniques; Functional decomposition; data flow; data structure, theoretical issues in testing, testing strategies: path; domain; mutation and error specific, cost and reliability models."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CSE 776	Design Patterns	3 credit(s)	A seminar course based on the book ¡°Design Patterns.¡± Object oriented design methods emphasizing conceptual understanding rather than software development projects.	CSE 681?AND?CSE 687
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CSE 778	Advanced Windows Programming	3 credit(s)	"Seminar/projects course including: MFC library; windows architecture Graphics Device Interface; common, ActiveX, and Explorer controls; bitmaps; property sheets; toolbars; and status bars."	CSE 681?OR?CSE 687
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 623	Structured Programming and Formal Methods	3 credit(s)	"Reasoning about programs: specification, design, and realization of provably correct programs. Program and data structures, binding, procedures, recursion."	CIS 607/CSE 607
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 644	Internet Security	3 credit(s)	"Internet architecture. Security and attacks on TCP/IP, DNS, and BGP protocols. Internet protocol security. Firewall. Intrusion detection. Network traceback. Web security. Encryption. Public Key infrastructure. One-way harsh function. Digital signature. Security protocols."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CSE 686	Internet Programming	3 credit(s)	"A laboratory projects course. Programming models on web clients and servers. Topics include: browser and server object models, tagged languages, emphasizing HTML and XML, ASP programming, and database connectivity."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CSE 775	Distributed Objects	3 credit(s)	"Design and implement software components using the Component Object Model (COM). Students will develop programs with COM components, ActiveX controls, and distributed applications."	CSE 681?AND?CSE 687
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CSE 782	Models and Metrics in Software Engineering	3 credit(s)	"Need of models and metrics; software science; cyclomatic complexity; and extensions; error analysis; reliability, cost and productivity models."	CSE 682
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CSE 784	Software Engineering Studio	3 credit(s)	"Applied software engineering and project management. Students are expected to analyze, plan, design, implement, test, and evaluate original software system to stand alone or be integrated into an existing environment. All work performed in teams."	CSE 681?OR?CSE 687
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CSE 787	Analytical Data Mining	3 credit(s)	"Knowledge discovery process, data warehouses, OLAP, data mining inference based on statistics and machine learning, rule generation; emphasis on analytical aspects; applications."	"CIS 675,?ELE 606,?CSE 607"
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CSE 774	Principles of Distributed Access Control	3 credit(s)	"Specification, verification, and design of secure networks using formal logic. Includes historical access control models, role-based access control, and logics for reasoning about authentication, authorization, audit, delegation, and trust."	CIS 607?OR?CSE 607?
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CSE 681	Software Modeling and Analysis	3 credit(s)	"Project-based course covering software modeling, architecture, design, and implementation using diagramming, analysis tools, and common sense engineering methods to analyze performance of concurrent, message-driven systems."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 657	Principles of Operating Systems	3 credit(s)	"Design and implementation of operating systems. Process and memory management, resource scheduling, file system management, I/O and kernel services and structuring. Includes weekly lab using a Unix-like operating system."	CIS/CSE 486 OR EQUIVALENT
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CSE 607	Mathematical Basis for Computing	3 credit(s)	"Mathematical logic including predicate calculus, induction, theories with equality relations and groups. Mathematical logic applied to structures like nonnegative integers, tuples, lists, and trees."	
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CIS 628	Introduction to Cryptography	3 credit(s)	"Classical and public-key cryptography. Topics include classical cryptosystems and their cryptanalysis, RSA and other public key cryptosystems, pseudo-random sequences, zero-knowledge protocols, related ethical and social concerns."	(CIS 477 OR?CIS 675) OR (MAT 534?OR?MAT 541)
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CSE 765	VLSI Testing and Verification	3 credit(s)	"Fault modeling and simulation, automatic test pattern generation, design for testability, boundary scan architectures, and built-in self-test. Functional simulation, coverage metrics, event- and assertion-based verification, and formal methods including model checking and logical equivalence checking."	"CSE 561,?CSE 664"
College of Engineering and Computer Science	CSE 687	Object Oriented Design	3 credit(s)	"Basic methods of object oriented software design and implementation. Object oriented software engineering methodologies: specification, hierarchical decomposition, reuse and extensibility. Implementation of projects in object oriented programming language and analysis of design case studies."	
