College of Arts and Sciences	MAT 521	Introduction to Probability	3 credit(s)	Algebra of sets. Probability in finite sample spaces. Binomial and multinomial coefficients. Random variables. Expected value and standard deviation. Density functions. Statistical applications.	MAT 397 OR GRADUATE STANDING IN MATHEMATICAL SCIENCES
College of Arts and Sciences	MAT 525	Mathematical Statistics	3 credit(s)	"Estimation and confidence intervals. Normal distribution and central limit theorem. Testing hypotheses, chi-square, t, and F distributions. Least squares, regression, and correlation."	MAT 521?OR GRADUATE STANDING IN MATHEMATICAL SCIENCES
College of Arts and Sciences	STT 750	Statistical Consulting	3 credit(s)	"Working with real data taken from case studies, published papers, and current projects in the statistical laboratory."	(MAT 525?OR?MAT 652) AND (MAT 654?OR APM 630 OR?MAS 766)
College of Arts and Sciences	MAT 750	Statistical Consulting	3 credit(s)	"Working with real data taken from case studies, published papers, and current projects in the statistical laboratory."	(MAT 525?OR?MAT 652) AND (MAT 654?OR APM 630 OR?MAS 766)
College of Arts and Sciences	MAT 654	Linear Models	3 credit(s)	"Point estimation by least squares, regression, curve fitting, testing a linear hypothesis, analysis of variance, simple experimental designs."	(MAT 525?AND?MAT 531) OR GRADUATE STANDING IN MATHEMATICAL SCIENCES
College of Arts and Sciences	PSY 757	Multiple Correlation and Regression	3 credit(s)	"Regression versus correlation models. Interpreting regression coefficients, and multiple, partial, and semipartial correlation coefficients. Choosing and cross-validating models. Locating outlying and influential cases. Computer packages and extensive application to behavioral science data."	PSY 756
College of Arts and Sciences	MAS 766	Linear Statistical Models I: Regression Models	3 credit(s)	"General regression model, estimation methods, general linear hypothesis tests, residual analysis, indicator variables, multicollinearity, autoregressive model, weighted least squares, variable-screening procedures."	
College of Arts and Sciences	SOC 714	Intermediate Social Statistics	3 credit(s)	Introduction to multivariate statistical techniques to social science data.	SOC 513
College of Arts and Sciences	ECN 621	Econometrics I	3 credit(s)	Mathematical formulation of economic models. Statistical problems of estimating parameters in regression analysis.	ECN 605?AND?ECN 620
College of Arts and Sciences	PSY 756	Experimental Design and Statistical Methods II	3 credit(s)	"Correlational and survey research design. Reliability, bivariate correlation, partial and part correlation, bivariate regression, multiple regression, and logistic regression. Statistical mediation and moderation. Introduction to bootstrapping."	PSY 655
College of Arts and Sciences	PSY 853	Experimental Design and Statistical Tests	3 credit(s)	Experimental design and appropriate statistical tests. Use of the analysis of variance and covariance techniques.	
College of Arts and Sciences	MAS 767	Linear Statistical Models II: Variance	3 credit(s)	"Single and multiclassification analysis of variance for fixed, random, and mixed effects models, simultaneous estimation method implementation of ANOVA models, analysis of covariance."	MAS 766
College of Arts and Sciences	MAS 765	Sample Survey Methods and Theory	3 credit(s)	"Simple random, stratified, systematic, cluster, and multistage sampling methods. Cost and precision. Methods of estimation; simple, unbiased, ratio, regression, and composite methods of measuring and controlling nonsampling errors."	MBC 638
College of Arts and Sciences	PSY 857	Multivariate Analysis	3 credit(s)	"Statistical techniques dealing with situations in volving many variables. Multivariate analysis of variance, discriminant analysis, canonical correlations, and classification procedures."	
College of Arts and Sciences	SOC 813	Advanced Social Statistics	3 credit(s)	"Examination of some current issues in multivariate analysis. Most issues examined are based on linear model. Focus varies by term. Examples of topics covered are path analysis, non-recursive models, unmeasured variables and measurement issues."	
College of Arts and Sciences	PAI 721	Introduction to Statistics	3 credit(s)	"Basic inferential statistics (point and interval estimation, hypothesis testing). Descriptive statistics (measure of central tendency, variation, bivariate and multivariate association)."	
College of Arts and Sciences	PAI 722	Quantitative Analysis	3 credit(s)	"Quantitatively oriented models used in policy analysis, program evaluation, and forecasting. Linear, mathematical, probabilistic, and cost-benefit models."	PAI 721
College of Arts and Sciences	PAI 730	Problems in Public Administration	1-3 credit(s)	"May include specific courses focusing on international economic development; nonprofit and international non-governmental organization management; federal policy formulation; technology and governance issues; e-government; GIS mapping, and dispute resolution management."	
College of Arts and Sciences	PSC 794	Advanced Quantitative Political Analysis	3 credit(s)	"Multivariate data analysis, including regression, causal analysis, time series, and factor analysis. Theoretical uses, implications, and meanings of techniques. Techniques applied through computer analyses using SPSS, SAS."	
College of Arts and Sciences	MAT 755	Multivariate Statistical Analysis	3 credit(s)	"Multivariate normal distribution, conditional densities, partial correlation, multiple correlation, regression coefficients, maximum likelihood estimates, Hotelling¡¯s statistic, Wishart distribution, tests of hypotheses, and linear discriminant functions."	MAT 525?OR?MAT 532?OR GRADUATE STANDING IN MATHEMATICAL SCIENCES
College of Arts and Sciences	MAS 723	Nonparametric Statistics	3 credit(s)	"Statistical methods that make no assumptions about the probability distribution sampled. Methods based on signs, ranks, and order statistics, related aspects of probability theory, statistical inference, special procedures, and case examples."	MBC 638?OR?MAS 653
College of Arts and Sciences	MAS 777	Time Series Modeling and Analysis	3 credit(s)	"Fundamental concepts and procedures for forecasting discrete time series for planning and control. Regression analysis, ARIMA methods, econometric modeling, transfer functions, intervention analysis, Kalman filters, univariate and multivariate methods."	MBC 638
College of Arts and Sciences	MAT 526	Introduction to Stochastic Processes	3 credit(s)	"Discrete time Markov chains, Poisson process, continuous time Markov chains and other selected stochastic processes."	MAT 521?OR GRADUATE STANDING IN MATHEMATICAL SCIENCES
College of Arts and Sciences	MAT 653	Statistical Simulation and Nonstandard Data Analysis	3 credit(s)	Simulation and Monte Carlo techniques appropriate where statistical theory does not yet provide a solution. Design and analysis of experiments under nonstandard conditions.	?MAT 651?OR GRADUATE STANDING IN MATHEMATICAL SCIENCES
College of Arts and Sciences	MAT 721	Probability I	3 credit(s)	"Measure and integration. Random variables, their distributions and transforms. Modes of convergence. Classical limit laws. Markov chains."	(MAT 602?AND?MAT 701) OR GRADUATE STANDING IN MATHEMATICAL SCIENCES
College of Arts and Sciences	MAT 722	Probability II	3 credit(s)	Conditional expectation. Martingales. Brownian motion. Ergodic theorem. Random walks.	?MAT 721?OR GRADUATE STANDING IN MATHEMATICAL SCIENCES
College of Arts and Sciences	MAT 752	"Statistical Ranking, Selection, and Multiple Comparisons"	3 credit(s)	"Statistical selection of the best category or population. Preference-zone and subset formulations. Multivariate preferences and populations. Applications. Recent developments, including Multiple Comparisons with the Best (MCB) and the Heteroscedastic Method (HM)."	MAT 652?OR GRADUATE STANDING IN MATHEMATICAL SCIENCES
College of Arts and Sciences	GEO 686	Quantitative Geographic Analysis	3 credit(s)	"Descriptive and inferential statistics for use geo-referenced data, spatial autocorrelation, and geostatistics. Geographic examples. Weekly labs. Individualized advanced work and term project."	
College of Arts and Sciences	ECN 620	Foundations of Econometrics	3 credit(s)	"Probability and statistics. Random variables, joint probability distributions, point estimation, and hypothesis testing procedures. May not be repeated for credit. Open to economics Ph.D. and Applied Statistics masters students only. Two semesters of calculus required."	
College of Arts and Sciences	ECN 622	Econometrics II	3 credit(s)	Estimation problems and techniques in more complex economic models.	ECN 621
College of Arts and Sciences	ECN 720	Topics in Econometrics	3 credit(s)	Selected topics in applied and advanced econometrics.	ECN 622
